# Use cases for archiving of 3D product model data
According to the Common Specification: “Regardless of the formats and systems in question, it is necessary to consider whether the information needs to be retained and managed for longer periods of time." The reasons for this might be, for example:

+	to meet legal and regulatory obligations
+	to provide for efficient reuse
+	to satisfy historical, cultural, scientific and business interest.
  
In LOTAR the objectives for keeping data for long-term are clearly distinguished into two major categories:

+	Legal requirements/certification requirements, such as for proof of technical documentation for actions in law
+	Business requirements, such as keeping knowledge
  
Within the two categories LOTAR offers four characteristics which describe the objectives in more detail:

+	to preserve the original data (generated by a source system) so that it can be used as evidence of what the data was at a particular date. This characteristic fits with the subcategory ‘legal requirement’
+	to keep data available to new users over the period for which it is kept. This characteristic fits with the subcategories ‘legal requirement’ and ‘business requirement’.
+	to be able to preserve the source of the kept data. This characteristic fits with the subcategory ‘business requirement’.
+	to be able to reuse the data, for example, by modifying design data to meet new requirements. This characteristic fits with the subcategory ‘business requirement’.
  
The two major categories for keeping data stated by LOTAR imply a private (as opposed to public) archive which is under the control of the organisation which hopes to benefit from the value of the content in the future (business requirements) or to manage future risk with respect to the data (legal/certification requirements). Requirements for interoperability in this situation will be intra-organisational rather than inter-organisational, where there may over time be exchange or movement of data between locations and as a result of changes in organisation structure. 

The use cases considered within the specification are therefore:

1.	To enable the submission of 3D Product Model data from engineering departments in an organisation to a centralised or distributed archive, in a common format;
2.	To store archival 3D Product Model data in a manner that will allow consolidation of archives intra-organisationially or with sources added through mergers or acquisitions;
3.	To allow dissemination of Preoduct Model archival data within the organisation or to external regulatory bodies preserving both the integrity of the data objects and the information packages.
